----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 90
TITLE: A Fibrational Framework for Substructural and Modal Logics
AUTHORS: Daniel R. Licata, Michael Shulman and Mitchell Riley

Overall evaluation: 2 (accept)
Reviewer's confidence: 4 ((high))

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
In 'A Fibrational Framework for Substructural and Modal Logics' the
authors present a sequent calculus with cut elimination in which a
variety of logics can be encoded, a term calculus, and a categorical
semantics.

The calculus is based on 'mode theories', first-order equational
theories with rewrites between (equivalence classes of) terms. The
sorts, or 'modes', of these theories allow one to state that
propositions may exist at different levels, for example as in
linear-non-linear logic where premises are divided between those that
may be used any number of times and those that must be used exactly
once. The terms, or 'context descriptors', of mode theories are attached
to sequents and express the structure of its premises. The equations and
rewrites of the theories govern how premises may be manipulated, for
example with weakening or contraction. The only primitive connectives of
the logic are an 'F' connective that gives a proposition-level
expression of the structural connectives, as with comma and conjunction
in standard sequents, and a 'U' connective which is the residuation of
the F connective, for example implication.

In assessing a paper such as this offering a general framework, we must
consider how common important instances of this framework are, and what
benefits the generalisation provides with respect to such instances. The
paper presents an impressive range of examples to answer the first
question in Section 3 (along with a few in the extended version), but
there is no discussion of the limitations of the framework, which I will
return to in the next paragraph. The second question is more
imponderable because there is no compelling application of the framework
yet developed, but the presentation of the structure of contexts and
rules for their manipulation as a theory, and the categorical semantics,
seem novel and intriguing enough to recommend publication.

Returning to the strength and limitations of the framework, my reading
is that the framework expresses very neatly various notions of
structured premises, and rules for manipulating premises, that exist in
the literature, and would be interested to know if the authors have
found examples of structured contexts or structural rules that cannot be
expressed in their framework. The use of F and U connectives to define
all other connectives is a more serious restriction; examples such as
sums must be added in an ad hoc fashion and there is obviously no
guarantee that the theorems such as cut-elimination that come for free
from using the general framework will continue to hold for arbitrary
extensions. More seriously, only a very narrow notion of modal logic, in
which the modality defines a (co)monad, can be expressed. I find the
phrase of the paper, "modal logics describe monads and comonads", to be
misleading; the basic categorical notion captured by a (necessity)
modality is a !
monoidal functor, which need not be, and often is not, a (co)monad. No
mention is given to any notion of binding operation such as first-order
quantifiers. Nor is there any notion of structured premises, as for
example with classical logic, or more generally, display logic. This
lack makes the decision to concentrate this paper on sequent calculus
rather than natural deduction slightly surprising, as no benefit is
received from exploiting the symmetries of sequent calculus, but the
term calculus material of Section 4 might have been simpler if developed
for natural deduction proofs. It is asserted that "everything can be
translated to natural deduction in the usual way" but this is not
demonstrated, even in the extended version, and given the novel features
of this calculus I cannot take it for granted.

Despite the above comments I believe the paper offers a substantial
contribution with respect to its generality, and also with respect to
the sheer volume of work indicated by the number of proofs and examples
included only in the extended version. I would only like to see a better
discussion of the limitations of the framework and some speculation on
whether these limitations are innate or might be met by further work.

Minor comments:

Figures 1 and 2 both use 'ctx' as a binary connective, meaning different
things, which is confusing.

Page 7, "We sometimes write F_f(A) in this case...". I don't believe
this abbreviation is ever used in (the 15 page version of) the paper.

Page 10 and elsewhere, "we add a context descriptor from c to l (x : c|-
f(x) : l)...". This may be a matter of taste, but I don't find the
latter notation preferable to the more concise and standard "f : c ->
l".

Page 11 footnote, "flipped in paper" should be "flipped in this paper".

Theorem 5.5 "mutilcategory" typo.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 90
TITLE: A Fibrational Framework for Substructural and Modal Logics
AUTHORS: Daniel R. Licata, Michael Shulman and Mitchell Riley

Overall evaluation: 2 (accept)
Reviewer's confidence: 3 ((medium))

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
The paper provides a simply typed sequent calculus parametrized by a
"mode theory", so that different choices of mode theories encode
different intuitionistic substructural and modal type theories.  A
mode theory is specified by a signature containing "modes"
(i.e. sorts), constants, morphisms and equalities. The modes type
first-order terms \alpha built out of the constants and
applications. The morphisms and equalities specify respectively valid
transformations and equalities between the terms. The entailment
judgment of the sequent calculus is indexed by an \alpha, which
is not however a proof term but rather describes how the proof is
allowed to make use of the context. The sequent calculus comes with
two type formers, a generalized product and a generalized arrow type
also behaving according to their \alpha index. Various examples of
type theories that fit this framework are provided, admissibility of
cut is stated as a theorem (referring to a longer version), and
finally a categorical semantics is given with soundness and
completeness theorems.

Overall this seems a novel and interesting approach to the development
of a unified type system for various kinds of type theories that
manipulate the typing context in some way other than structurally. The
use of terms \alpha to index the typing judgment matches very closely
the fact that the semantics are specified as bifibrations: the
fibration indexes each arrow in the semantics by an arrow in the mode
theory. This gives some reassurance that the calculus is not ad-hoc.

However, having only a limited knowledge of multicategories and
(bi)fibrations it's not very clear to me whether it is convenient to
work with semantics structured like that. The authors could help by
showing, for some logic they encode, how some concrete model supports
the bifibration structure into the appropriate mode theory.

Applicability is shown by examples, but a discussion of limitations
would also be interesting, e.g. examples of logics not fitting the
framework and what kind of issues there are when scaling to dependent
types.

Minor Comments:

- The introduction mentions applications to homotopy type theory, so
 it would help if it addressed the lack of dependent types in the
  calculus.

- Section 2.1 and Figure 1 describe in detail the syntax and typing
 rules for the mode theory, but the risk is to lose the forest for
  the trees and make it harder to see that we are dealing with a
   multi-sorted first order theory.

- In the paragraph before Theorem 3.1, the use of specialized names
 vs. the more genering F and U is quite inconsistent, also between
  the text and the inference trees.

- Definition 5.2 mentions \pi while it only introduced F_0

- Theorem 5.7, at the end, "D([[A_1]],...,[[A_n]]) -> [[C]]"
 should be "D([[A_1]],...,[[A_n]];[[C]])"


EDIT: Some more comments from another reviewer
==============================================

p4 "more than one object in the domain"
 ADD: "of morphisms"

Section 2.1 Mode Theories

"The first layer of our framework is a type theory"

 More precisely, these are multi-sorted first order terms.

Figure 1

 I find this a bit excessive, given that your language is standard:
  multi-sorted first order terms.
   You assume your reader to know many logics, but not something as
    simple as typed first-order terms.
     I think you can shorten the presentation of the first layer to make
      more space for the real meat.

 Also, I find the definition of a signature as list not doing you a
  good service.  For one, it restricts it to be finite (or have some
   fair serialization in case you want infinitely many sorts p and
    infinitely many constants c etc.   Why not simply say that you have

   - set of modes p
      - set of constants c
         - a map from constants c to their arity (p₁,...pₙ) → q
            - a set of typed equations ψ ⊢ α ≡ α' : p
               ...

 Your reflexivity rule misses a hypothesis ψ ⊢ α : p

 I would prefer notation ≤ over ⇒ for comparison of terms α.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 90
TITLE: A Fibrational Framework for Substructural and Modal Logics
AUTHORS: Daniel R. Licata, Michael Shulman and Mitchell Riley

Overall evaluation: 1 (weak accept)
Reviewer's confidence: 3 ((medium))

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
This paper provides a generic framework that encompasses many aspects
of intuitionistic substructural and modal logics. The start point is a
simple type theory for the so-called modes used to describe the
structure of contexts and their properties. In the categorical
semantics provided in the last section of the paper, modes are
organised in a cartesian 2-multicategory, in which the 0-cells are the
base types, 1-morphisms are context descriptor terms and 2-morphisms
are structural transformations, all up to congruence.

Having fixed a mode theory, a generic sequent calculus is given
featuring two type constructors for F-types and U-types that
generalise multiplicative products, respectively implication. Types
over a given mode, derivations along context descriptors and
corresponding structural transformation can also be organised into a
2-dimensional multicategory. The projection to the 2-multicategory of
modes is shown to be a local discrete fibration, and furthermore a
bifibration with opcartesian and cartesian lifts given using the FL
and UR derivations.

This submission is the condensed version of a 66-page paper that
additionally contains proofs, detailed examples and work on (weak)
logical adequacy of the translations of various logics into the
generic framework. The authors explain carefully the syntax and the
rules of
the proposed framework and I found the paper well-written, despite its
very syntactic nature.

The authors should explain what are the difficulties of
generalising the previous work of [Licata and Schulman, 2016] to a
multi-assumption situation and what is the substantial technical
contribution wrt the 2016 paper. It is clear that the scope of
applications
is  wider, but the idea of a bifibration over a 2-category of modes is
already mentioned in that paper.

I am also wondering how all this relates to other approaches to
categorical semantics for specific logics, e.g. full Lambek
hyperdoctrines (as considered by Maruyama).
