
We thank the reviewers very much for their detailed and helpful
feedback, which will greatly improve the next revision of this paper.
We will add the discussion below to the paper.

-- Review 1 --

* What benefits does the framework provide relative to existing
  instances of it?  We have found it quite useful for designing several
  new "modal homotopy type theories", of which we included one
  representative example (spatial type theory, Sec 3.5). But there are
  others, involving modalities and products with different properties --
  e.g. a variant of BI where one product has a map to the other.  

* Can the framework express functors that are not monads or comonads?
  Yes.  For a general unary mode morphism f, F_f and U_f are adjoint
  functors, which are not necessarily monoidal but can be made monoidal
  by adding structural rules.  If one considers proofs that avoid
  mentioning one of either the F_f or U_f types, such proofs can be
  interpreted in a setting with only a functor ! (with no adjoint).
  Technically, in Definition 5.4, we first define what it means for a
  local discrete fibration to "have \mu-products" and "have \mu-homs"
  for a particular mode morphism \mu (independently from each other).  A
  bifibration has all \mu products and homs, but one can consider only
  some products and homs, when non-adjoint modalities are of interest.

* Is it difficult to add sums?  We'd only emphasize that additive
  coproducts and products do not need to be considered separately for
  each mode theory.  The rules for coproducts are on page 7 of the
  submission, and the admissible properties (cut) continue to hold for
  these (and &), independently of the mode theory.  

* Why sequent calculus as opposed to natural deduction?
  We added the interderivability of natural deduction rules to page 24
  of the publicly available version.  We chose to use a sequent
  calculus only because of the simplicity of defining cut-free/normal
  forms with a single judgement.

* What are the prospects for extensions, e.g. to first order
  quantifiers, and structured conclusions (as in classical or display
  logic)?  Work on this is in progress, and it certainly seems possible,
  though it is not obvious what the right syntactic or semantic
  structures are.  We have developed the single-conclusioned case first
  because our main motivating examples are extensions of intuitionistic
  type theory.


-- Review 2 --

* Do concrete models support the bifibration structure?
  Section 9 of the extended version can be read as a syntactic version
  of such a result, showing that the syntax specialized to the ordered
  logic mode theory (a monoid) presents the free monoidal category.

* What limitations are there?  We will add a discussion of extensions to
  quantifiers and multi-conclusioned sequents.  Scaling to dependent
  types is challenging because the range of substructural and modal
  dependent types that one would like to codify is not well-understood.
  As a first step, we are currently considering a number of modal
  homotopy type theories, including the spatial type theory described
  here, variations on it, and a directed type theory.  In each of these,
  we have used a mode theory to guide the simply-typed rules, and then
  generalized to dependent types "manually".
  
-- Review 3 --

* What were the difficulties in generalizing our previous work on
  one-variable logic?  We can only say that it took several attempts to
  come up with a well-behaved multi-variable generalization, and that
  our early attempts (by adding products to the mode category instead of
  using multicategories) did not satisfy cut admissibility or had other
  explicit structural rules that could not be fused with the connective
  rules.  The precise formulation of the equational theory on
  derivations and the semantic structures also both took some care.
  Finally, it was not obvious that encodings would be adequate in senses
  we prove in the extended version, because these proofs rely on a
  strengthening lemma showing that "unusable" variables (in the sense of
  the context descriptor) do not matter.  All of these issues are new
  relative to the single-variable logic.  Because of these challenges,
  and because the multi-variable case has more potential applications
  outside of homotopy type theory (e.g. to modal logics for
  computational effects), we think this is a useful delta to disseminate
  to the community.

* Thank you as well for the reference to Maruyama; we will investigate.  

