Many intuitionistic substructural and modal logics / type theories can
be seen as a restriction on the allowed proofs in a standard structural
logic or $\lambda$-calculus.  For example, substructural logics remove
properties such as associativity, weakening, exchange, and contraction,
while modal logics place restrictions on positions in which certain
variables can be used.  Despite the differences between them, these
logics follow a very similar pattern: there is a restrcited context
structure (trees,lists,multisets,sets,dual zones,...) that captures the
intended meaning; products, implications, and modalities are defined by
manipulating the context structure; and if the rules are set up in a
certain way, cut / normalization will be admissible.  However, repeating
this pattern in an ad hoc way for each system makes it difficult to
design new logics, a problem we have recently run into when trying to
extend homotopy type theory to express additional mathematical
situations.

In this paper, we define a general framework that abstracts the common
features of many substructural and modal logics.  The framework is a
sequent calculus / normal-form type theory parametrized by a _mode
theory_, which is used to describe the structure of contexts and the
structural properties they obey.  Specific mode theories can express
non-associative, ordered, linear, affine, relevant, and cartesian
products and implications; monoidal and non-monoidal comonads and
adjunctions; strong and non-strong monads; n-linear variables; bunched
implications; subexponentials; and the adjunctions that arose in our
work on homotopy type theory.  We prove cut (and identity) admissibility
independently of the mode theory, obtaining it for all of the above
logics at once.  Further, we give a general equational theory on
derivations that, in addition to the usual beta-eta rules, characterizes
when two derivations that differ only by the placement of structural
rules.  Technically, the key idea is to separate the context itself from
a term, drawn from the mode theory, that constrains how the context can
be used.  

In addition to the syntactic presentation of these ideas, we give an
equivalent semantic presentation.  A mode theory corresponds to a
2-dimensional cartesian multicategory, and the framework corresponds to
another such multicategory with a functor to the mode theory. The
logical connectives have universal properties relative to this functor,
making it into a bifibration.  We show that the sequent calculus rules
and the equational theory on derivations are sound and complete for this
semantic definition.  

Finally, we discuss 


----------------------------------------------------------------------

Many intuitionistic substructural and modal logics / type theories can
be seen as a restriction on the allowed proofs in a standard structural
logic / lambda-calculus.  For example, substructural logics remove
properties such as associativity, weakening, exchange, and contraction,
while modal logics place restrictions on the positions in which certain
variables can be used.  These restrictions are usually enforced by a
specific context structure (trees,lists,multisets,sets,dual zones,...)
that products, implications, and modalities manipulate.  While the
general technique is clear, it is often difficult to devise rules
modeling a new situation, a problem we have recently run into while
extending homotopy type theory to express additional mathematical
situations.

In this paper, we define a general framework that abstracts the common
features of many substructural and modal logics.  The framework is a
sequent calculus / normal-form type theory parametrized by a _mode
theory_, which is used to describe the structure of contexts and the
structural properties they obey.  Technically, the key idea is to pair
the context itself, which obeys standard structural properties, with a
term, drawn from the mode theory, that constrains how the context can be
used.  Product types, implications, and modalities are defined as
instances of two general connectives, one positive and one negative,
that manipulate these terms.  We show that specific mode theories can
express non-associative, ordered, linear, affine, relevant, and
cartesian products and implications; monoidal and non-monoidal comonads
and adjunctions; strong and non-strong monads; n-linear variables;
bunched implications; subexponentials; and the adjunctions that arose in
our work on homotopy type theory.  We prove cut (and identity)
admissibility independently of the mode theory, obtaining it for all of
the above logics at once.  Further, we give a general equational theory
on derivations that, in addition to the usual beta-eta rules,
characterizes when two derivations that differ only by the placement of
structural rules.  Moreover, we give an equivalent semantic presentation
of these ideas, in which a mode theory corresponds to a 2-dimensional
cartesian multicategory, and the framework corresponds to another such
multicategory with a functor to the mode theory. The logical connectives
have universal properties relative to this functor, making it into a
bifibration.  The sequent calculus rules and the equational theory on
derivations are sound and complete for this.  The resulting framework
can be used both to understand logics from the literature and to design
new ones.
