Many intuitionistic substructural and modal logics / type theories can be seen as a restriction on the allowed proofs in a standard structural logic / lambda-calculus.  For example, substructural logics remove properties such as associativity, weakening, exchange, and contraction, while modal logics place restrictions on the positions in which certain variables can be used.  These restrictions are usually enforced by a specific context structure (trees,lists,multisets,sets,dual zones,...) that products, implications, and modalities manipulate.  While the general technique is clear, it can be difficult to devise rules modeling a new situation, a problem we have recently run into while extending homotopy type theory to express additional mathematical applications.

In this paper, we define a general framework that abstracts the common features of many intuitionistic substructural and modal logics.  The framework is a sequent calculus / normal-form type theory parametrized by a _mode theory_, which is used to describe the structure of contexts and the structural properties they obey.  The framework makes use of resource annotations, where we pair the context itself, which obeys standard structural properties, with a term, drawn from the mode theory, that constrains how the context can be used.  Product types, implications, and modalities are defined as instances of two general connectives, one positive and one negative, that manipulate these resource annotations.  We show that specific mode theories can express non-associative, ordered, linear, affine, relevant, and cartesian products and implications; monoidal and non-monoidal comonads and adjunctions; strong and non-strong monads; n-linear variables; bunched implications; and the adjunctions that arose in our work on homotopy type theory.  We prove cut (and identity) admissibility independently of the mode theory, obtaining it for all of the above logics at once. Further, we give a general equational theory on derivations / terms that, in addition to the usual beta-eta rules, characterizes when two derivations differ only by the placement of structural rules.  Finally, we give an equivalent semantic presentation of these ideas, in which a mode theory corresponds to a 2-dimensional cartesian multicategory, and the framework corresponds to another such multicategory with a functor to the mode theory. The logical connectives have universal properties relative to this functor, making it into a bifibration.  The sequent calculus rules and the equational theory on derivations are sound and complete for this.  The resulting framework can be used both to understand existing logics / type theories and to design new ones.
